---
title: Pulumi
draft: false
weight: 2
---

When working in cloud environments, it is useful to be able to define and statefully manage infrastructure. Pulumi is an _Infrastructure as Code (IAC)_ utility that allows developers to programatically create, update, and delete cloud resources using popular programming languages such as Typescript, Javascript, Python, and Go.

## Setup

1. Download and install Pulumi following the instructions [here](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/).

2. Confirm the CLI is successfully installed by running the following.
```sh
pulumi version
```

3. Within an empty directory, execute one of the following based on your preffered programming language to create a Pulumi project.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Typescript" %}}
```sh
pulumi new aws-typescript
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Javascript" %}}
```sh
pulumi new aws-javascript
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}
```sh
pulumi new aws-python
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go"%}}
```sh
pulumi new aws-go
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

4. Once the Pulumi project has initialized, run the following command to ensure Pulumi is able to execute the project for the target language. 
The `pulumi preview` command will list which cloud resources will be generated by the Pulumi program. For a default Pulumi project, there should only be the default S3 bucket for data storage.
```sh
pulumi preview
```

5. To validate that you are able to deploy to AWS, run the following. If unsuccessful, it may be due to incorectly configured AWS credentials. 
```sh
pulumi up
```

6. Once the above is successful, run the following to delete any provisioned resources.
```sh
pulumi down
```