web/content/aws/canonical_requests/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
draft: false
weight: 1
---

AWS SDKs, CLI, or IaC tools all invoke network calls to AWS services when performing cloud infrastructure operations. AWS refers to these API calls as _canonical requests_.

![Cloud Computing Overview](/images/can_req/can_req.png)

While developers can directly leverage canonical requests to communicate with AWS, it is preferable, and often more convenient, to utilize the AWS-provided CLI and SDKs whenever possible when invoking AWS APIs. Direct canonoical calls to AWS should be utilized in cases where either existing language support does not exist or where fine-grained API control is required.  

For additional security, AWS enforces that incoming AWS calls are signed with valid credentials. This ensures the AWS can verify the identity of the client, protect the API request data in transit, and mitigate potential relay attacks. AWS offers two versions of signing, V2 and V4, with the majority of AWS services supporting the latest V4 signing method.

Commit message:

Include structure overview in introduction.
Consolidating going over request structure into introduction

web/content/aws/canonical_requests/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
draft: false
weight: 1
---

AWS SDKs, CLI, or IaC tools all invoke network calls to AWS services when performing cloud infrastructure operations. AWS refers to these API calls as _canonical requests_.

![Cloud Computing Overview](/images/can_req/can_req.png)

While developers can directly leverage canonical requests to communicate with AWS, it is preferable, and often more convenient, to utilize the AWS-provided CLI and SDKs whenever possible when invoking AWS APIs. Direct canonoical calls to AWS should be utilized in cases where either existing language support does not exist or where fine-grained API control is required.  

For additional security, AWS enforces that incoming AWS calls are signed with valid credentials. This ensures the AWS can verify the identity of the client, protect the API request data in transit, and mitigate potential relay attacks. AWS offers two versions of signing, V2 and V4, with the majority of AWS services supporting the latest V4 signing method.

## Request Structure

Canonical requests are of the following structure:

```
 CanonicalRequest =
  HTTPRequestMethod + '\n' +
  CanonicalURI + '\n' +
  CanonicalQueryString + '\n' +
  CanonicalHeaders + '\n' +
  SignedHeaders + '\n' +
  HexEncode(Hash(RequestPayload))
```

The individual fields are defined below:
- HTTPRequestMethod: The HTTP operation
- CanonicalURI: Absolute path of the target resouce, including the base service domain.
- CanonicalQueryString: URI-encoded query parameters
- CanonicalHeaders: List of all the HTTP headers included with the signed requests.
- SignedHeaders: Alphabetically sorted, semicolon-separated list of lowercase request header names
- RequestPayload: Payload of the target request. This is hashed and hex encoded for additional security.
